✅ 1. Abstraction
Interview Answer:
Abstraction is a concept in OOP where we hide the complex implementation details and show only the necessary features of an object.
It helps to reduce programming complexity by focusing only on the essential parts.

Example:
For example, when we use a mobile phone, we just press the call button. We don’t know the internal details of how the call is connected — this is abstraction.

✅ 2. Data Binding
Interview Answer:
Data Binding is the process of connecting the user interface (UI) with the business logic (data) of an application.
So, if the data changes in the backend (logic), the UI automatically updates to reflect that change.

Example:
In JavaFX or Android, if we bind a text field to a variable and change the variable’s value, the text field will automatically show the updated value.

✅ 3. Polymorphism
Interview Answer:
Polymorphism means "many forms." It allows one function or object to behave differently in different situations.

There are two types of polymorphism:


🔸 Compile-time Polymorphism (Static Binding):
This type is resolved during compilation.
Example: Method overloading – when we have multiple methods with the same name but different parameters in the same class.
class Example {
    void show(int a) { ... }
    void show(String b) { ... }
}


🔸 Runtime Polymorphism (Dynamic Binding):
This type is resolved at runtime.
Example: Method overriding – when a subclass provides a specific implementation of a method that is already defined in the parent class.




class Animal {
    void sound() { System.out.println("Animal sound"); }
}
class Dog extends Animal {
    void sound() { System.out.println("Dog barks"); }
}


If we call sound() using the Animal reference pointing to a Dog object, the Dog’s version will run — this is runtime polymorphism.

✅ Final Summary (if interviewer asks to explain all together):
Abstraction hides complexity, data binding connects data with UI, and polymorphism allows one interface to work in different ways. These are key principles of object-oriented programming.

